# Critique by Design
The visualization that I chose to critique is titled ["Tuition Costs for Common Universities"](https://datausa.io/profile/cip/music?tuition-measure-tuition_costs=inStateMeasure#tuition_costs). The original data comes from the National Center for Education Statistics' Postsecondary Education Data System
The visualization consists of three different bar graphs about music universities in North America, with each chart showing information for the years 2013 through 2020. Here, music universities consist of both post-secondary institutions that are specifically for music, as well as universities that have reputable and/or popular music degree programs. The first graph shows the in-state tuition rates for music universities; the second graphs shows out-of-state tuition rates; the third shows the total number of graduates from each school in a particular graph.
I think the intended audience of this graph would be people who are looking towards obtaining a post-secondary degree in music. I believe that the reader can understand the information with minimal effort. While I think the visualization is helpful for its intended audience, I also think there can be different ways to visualize the data on the tuition rates and number of graduates for each university.
While the extended data set includes tuition data from a long list of universities and colleges, this graph only includes a 'top 5' listing of universities (which is shown on the y-axis). However, I was not sure what the criteria was for determining which schools are considered to be 'top 5;' data is provided for 2013 through 2020, and while there are some schools that seem to remain in the top five each year, others enter and exit the listing. Additionally, in the last graph (total graduates), the values on the x-axis contain monetary signs, but from looking at the raw data, I believe that those values do not need to be there.

