[Home Page](/README.md) | [Critique by Design](/Critique.md) | [Visualizing Government Debt](/Governmentdebt.md) | [Tableau Demonstration](/Tableaudemo.md) | [Final Project Part One](/Final_partone.md) | [Final Project Part Two](/Final_parttwo.md)

# The Final Data Story
The link to my story on Shorthand can be found here: https://tswd-lauren.shorthandstories.com/encouraging-civic-engagement-arts-funding-and-public-school-budgets-in-maryland/index.html 

# Changes made since Part Two
For part three of the final project, I stuck with most of the initial wireframes that I submitted in part two. When I received user feedback in part two, the individuals I spoke to seemed to agree that the first chart titled "A majority of Americans have positive views towards arts education" was the strongest visualization. Since that was the data point that I wanted to build my story around, it remained the first visualization in Shorthand story. I also added an additional datapoint from Pew Research Center that helped me tie in some of the points I wanted to make around civic engagement. While I knew I wanted to build my story around both arts education and civic engagement, I was having some difficulties in deciding how I should bring those two elements together. Bringing in additional sources that focused on civic engagement--particularly at the local level--helped me to build out the narrative part of my story.

I added a title to the map of Maryland that looked at the counties and population numbers that I focused on for my research. In the chart that showed the amount of funding for the arts in comparison with the remaining budget expenditures, I changed the chart from a horizontal stacked bar graph to a vertical stacked bar graph. I felt like changing to a vertical bar graph helped with both the visibility/legibility and spacing of the chart. Additionally, I changed the colors: while I originally used light green and light blue to demonstrate the two different parts, I used a dark blue and gray in order to better show a contrast between the colors, and to show the minimal sliver of the budget that is specifically directed towards arts education. In general, I  tried to stick with blues, greens, and purples for my visualizations. Additionally, since some school districts did not include specific money for the arts (or any other subject), I included a table that lists all of the fiscal year 2023 budget expenditures for each county/school district.

In my user feedback from part 2, one of the interviewees stated that they would like to see more information related to the budgeting process in general. I added a graphic based on a Canva template in order to list the general process/timeline of creating a public budget (based on Montgomery County Public Schools' budgeting process). In the last chart that describes the prominence of information for involvement and engagement, I stuck with the same visualization type that was included in part two, but added a title to describe the visualization and used different colors for 'high,' 'medium,' and 'low.' I also included my call to action, which was not present in part two. 

## The Audience
My call to action shows the three groups who I identified as my potential audiences: everyday citizens, local government and school board officials, and nonprofit organizations. 'Everyday citizens' were the audience segment that I had in mind from the start of this project (in part 1). I think the 'everyday citizen' category could be applicable to people across the U.S. (not exclusive to MD). Since my story later developed into evaluating how local, public entities make information regarding participation available to citizens, I included local government officials as another audience group. Lastly, I chose to include nonprofit organizations. The inclusion of nonprofits stemmed from a personal experience: I previously interned at a nonprofit organization whose mission was to advance access to arts and humanities education in a specific city. As an intern, I helped disseminate information on arts advocacy and how to prepare remarks for a public hearing to some of the organization's stakeholders and community members who were interested in providing testimonies at the city's upcoming budget hearings.

## Research Process
Collecting the information on each school district's budget was a long and somewhat tedious process. I chose to focus on the budgets from the current fiscal year (FY2023), as these are the most recently approved and adopted budggets. Each school district made their adopted budgets from FY23 available, in addition to the budgets from previous years; I believe that the oldest budget I saw was from Fiscal Year 2011. The budget expenditures for each school district (along with revenues) were probably the easiest sections to find within the budget documents. What made the process long and tedious was scrolling through PDFs of budgets in order to find the necessary information for my story and narrative. As previously mentioned, not every school district provided the specific amount of money that was budgeted for each subject. For the school districts that did list how each aspect of the curriculum was funded, I highlighted the specific budget line items that were arts-related (music, visual arts, dance, theatre, etc.) and added them together in order to get a better picture of how the arts are funded in certain districts. When looking at the pertinence of information regarding civilian engagement in the budgeting process, I looked for specific items on webpages such as calendars, locations of budget hearings, timelines, options for engagement, and specific language that was centered around actually encouraging citizens to participate in the budgeting process. 

## References
All references are included at the end of [my Shorthand story](https://tswd-lauren.shorthandstories.com/encouraging-civic-engagement-arts-funding-and-public-school-budgets-in-maryland/index.html).

# Final Thoughts
There were a few things I wanted to include in my story, but did not really have the time to do. One was comparing the proportion of arts-related funds to other subjects in the curriculum, rather than the budget expenditures as a whole. The second was creating a visualization that classified counties based on their environment and arranged them by population size; I briefly mentioned in my Shorthand story that the counties that I chose for a sample were a combination of rural, urban, and suburban environments. I also considered creating a visualization that compared the number of schools in each district and/or the number of students. One visualization that I created, but ended up not including in my Shorthand story was a scatter plot that compared expenditures for FY2023 to the population of the county (which is included below):
<div class="flourish-embed flourish-scatter" data-src="visualisation/12905448"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div> 
